in russia on the shores of the baltic
sea
there's an enigmatic national park the
dancing forest is a place that no
scientist has managed to explain so far
the pine trees of the forest are all
crooked and twisted into loops and
spirals
the forest didn't appear until the early
60s when the pines were planted
in order to make the sand dune in that
area more stable
one theory is that it's the unstable
sand that made the trees twist in such a
way
other theories for the crooked trees are
strong winds or even supernatural powers
some people say the forest is a place
where positive and negative energies
meet
twisting the trees local legend says
that if a person climbs through one of
the rings of a tree
it'll add an extra year to this person's
life or they'll be granted a wish
i like that one speaking of bizarre
trees
and i was one grows in the region of
piedmont
italy there a cherry tree grows on the
top of a mulberry tree
the strange thing is that both trees are
perfectly healthy
a continuous storm at saturn's north
pole has an
odd shape a hexagon this is probably
because of the gradient of the winds
the total length of this cloud pattern
is 9 000 miles
which is about 1200 miles longer than
the earth's diameter
the hexagon has been observed for many
years but it gets even
more mysterious because it changes color
too
it used to be turquoise but it has
recently shifted to a golden color
the reason for the color change is that
the pole gets exposed to sunlight as the
seasons change
now rain isn't unusual for oakville
washington
however this one still doesn't have any
solid scientific explanation
instead of common raindrops people watch
translucent
jelly-like blobs fall from the skies
these blobs covered about 20 square
miles
those who got really close to the rain
experience flu-like symptoms
what were the blobs researchers claim
that the blobs contain
human white blood cells later tests
showed no
presence of nuclei some people claim the
blobs might have been evaporated
jellyfish
resulting in rain or maybe even waste
from a commercial plane
walking rocks also known as sailing
rocks
move across the death valley national
park in california
without any external intervention
leaving long trails in the dirt and sand
along their way
various time-lapse footages of the
moving rocks have been taken
scientists even installed gps navigators
on some of the rocks
and it showed that the rocks move at a
considerable speed
some researchers believe that the
movement is due to thin sheets of ice
that form overnight at freezing
temperatures in the valley
letting the rocks move until it melts
during the day
or there was a rolling stones concert
yeah
[Applause]
the betta bataga crater in siberia looks
like a doorway to the underworld
it's about a half mile long and over 280
feet deep
but it never stops growing as it gets
deeper
it exposes more underground layers the
layers show what our planet looked like
thousands of years ago as the slumps
revealed they used to be climates
the crater appeared back in the 60s and
it all started with rapid deforestation
trees no longer cast shade on the ground
and it got hotter
the permafrost melted resulting in the
crater formation
the throbbing hum in taos new mexico has
driven locals wild since the 1990s
the low frequency hum deprives people of
sleep
and depletes their energy even though
scientists have tried to find the source
of the hum
they still haven't pinpointed its origin
different variations of the hum have
also been heard in the uk
australia canada and other areas of the
u.s
luckily only about 2 percent of the
world's population can hear it
the hums have been blamed on mechanical
devices multiple disturbances of
auditory systems
and even animals the west seattle hum
for example
was blamed on toad fish
fairy rings also known as elf rings or
pixie rings
are mysterious rings of mushrooms that
appear in grasslands and forested areas
there's a lot of debate about why these
fungi form a nearly perfect circle
some superstitions claim that fairy
dances would burn the ground
causing mushrooms to rapidly grow
in costa rica there's an assortment of
about 300 spherical stone balls
locals call them las bolas which is
simply the balls in english
these stones have an almost perfect
round shape
some of them are huge weighing up to 16
tons each
they're also made of different materials
gabriel limestone and sandstone
they're considered to have been put in
straight lines in front of the chief's
houses
but there's no precise information of
their origin
some myths claim that these stones
originated in atlantis
[Music]
if you ever travel to the mekong river
in late october
you have a chance of seeing glowing
balls rising from the water
and bee lining up into the air locals
call these glowing balls
the naga fireballs the size of the
lights vary
the reddish balls can be as tiny as a
spark and as
large as a basketball there can be
dozens to thousands of balls a night
scientists don't have any solid
explanation for why it happens
but it could be due to flammable gases
released by the marshy environment
some superstitious locals are sure it's
all because
of a giant serpent living in the mekong
great balls of fire
[Music]
in minnesota on the north shore of lake
superior
there's a park known for the devil's
kettle
this is a waterfall that splits in two
one part of the river continues
while the other part disappears into a
hole in the ground
whatever object you throw into the
devil's kettle won't reappear
scientists still haven't fully explained
where the water that drops into the hole
goes
devil's kettle is considered to be
unsafe for people because it's nearly
impossible to trace the flow
yeah not a place to go tubing
grunions are fish known for their
bizarre mating ritual
the females climb out of the water and
onto the shore
they dig their tails into the sand in
order to lay eggs
the legs stay hidden in the sand waiting
ten days later the high tide comes
washing the newly hatched young to the
sea
scientists still can't give any solid
explanation for this way of breeding
people who live in rural central norway
over the hessdalen valley
can often witness floating lights of
white yellow and red cross the sky
the lights appear both at day and night
and once back in the 80s they were
spotted 15 to 20 times in a single week
the hestalin lights can last just a few
seconds
but sometimes they can last more than an
hour the lights move
seeming to float or even sway around
some scientists believe that the reason
for these lights
is due to ionized iron dust others say
it's combustion
that includes sodium oxygen and hydrogen
many people claim
they're just misidentified aircrafts
yellowstone park has a famous boiling
lake but it's not the world's
only place of boiling water deep in the
amazon
there's the four mile chanee tempishka
river that's always hot
the name means boiled by the sun well
it's not exactly boiling but it can
reach 196 degrees fahrenheit
enough to cook pasta let's try that
the lowest temperature in these waters
is about 113 degrees
this river still can't be scientifically
explained
because it would require close proximity
to a volcano
for the water to reach such temperatures
however the closest volcano is 400 miles
away
but there could be a fault between the
earth that could explain this phenomenon
in western venezuela locals living close
to the catatombo river aren't afraid of
lightning
because they see it almost every single
night
it starts at around seven o'clock and
doesn't stop until dawn
the everlasting catatombo lightning did
once stop for a few months from january
to march 2010
it was probably due to drought or maybe
the charge ran out
in 1991 a scientist suggested that the
phenomenon happens
because of cold and warm air currents
meeting in the area
another theory is that the lightning
could be due to the presence of uranium
in the bedrock
speaking of lightning i got a bolt bye